# Table 4: Recurring and 1-Time Sources & Uses of Funds
## Additional Discussion


- **Project Costs** - Over the past several years there has been an increasing trend of rapid capital project price escalation that outpaces the lengthy Town budget cycle. Those outcomes are sometimes driven by well-documented national supply chain challenges. Because of this price volatility, and because of the Town’s long lead time for adjusting budget requests through Town Meeting action, Town Meeting began budgeting for capital projects with much higher than usual contingency amounts in FY24; entrusting the Select Board to monitoring execution, with “proceed or pause” authority with respect to contingency funds. This proposal would continue that approach for “Pay-As-You-Go” capital items funded in the Operating Budget in FY25.

- **Economic Volatility** - The Town is over seven months from a May 2024 Town Meeting vote on the FY25 budget. In economically stable times, moderate change could be expected over that period. Given the significant uncertainty about how military events in Eastern Europe and the Pacific may affect global stability, and specifically world-market energy price stability; and given the governance challenges being faced by Congress because of the very narrow majority in the House of Representatives, and the very significant policy differences within the slim House majority, the cone of uncertainty extending to May 2024 is wider in terms of potential outcomes than is typically seen. Moderate portions of the FY25 operating budget are sensitive to that volatility, and budgeting to address that volatility will be covered in the budget submission directions.

Revisiting the three operational priorities in the budget process in the context of resources available:

- **Sustaining and improving Town service delivery operations through a rigorous budget process that prioritizes finding efficiencies and focusing spending to support key service outcomes and impacts**: The constrained spending position in Table 2 above suggests that the amount initially estimated to be available for Departmental increases, 4.4%, will be insufficient to satisfy contractual, inflationary, and service growth costs (including diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging) for Hopkinton Operating Departments (Table 2 rows 18 - 24), including the Hopkinton Public Schools.