# Table 4: Recurring and 1-Time Sources & Uses of Funds
## Additional Discussion


Encl: (2)  
8
- **Sustaining and improving the Town's capital infrastructure through judicious recapitalization and investment practices:** The constrained spending position in Table 2 above allocates $1.8 million in one-time funding (certified free cash) for pay-as-you-go capital projects (Table 2 row 27). The estimates make no provision for funding additional debt within the tax levy, expecting that any large dollar value capital needs will be proposed as “excluded debt” under the Proposition 2 ½ budgeting framework; with due consideration to be given to Community Equity with respect to any additional tax impact from new excluded debt.

- **Ensuring long-term fiscal stability by allocating resources to support adequate reserves, steady funding of long-term liabilities, and adherence to best practices in Hopkinton Financial Policies:** The constrained spending position in Table 2 above sets aside $853,671 (Table 2 row 25) toward the long-term OPEB liability, a fund to pay the Town’s share of future health care costs being earned by Town employees working today. The Appropriation Committee Report dated April 18, 2023, available on the Town website, contains a detailed discussion of this long-term liability beginning on page 39, and communicates an intention to fund at the level identified, to be escalated by 2.5% per year, to have this cost fully funded by the mid-2050s. The constrained spending position in Table 2 above also sets aside $700,000 in non-recurring funding to bolster the Town’s General Stabilization Trust Fund (Table 2 row 26), as a follow-on to the $700,000 provided at the May, 2023 Annual Town Meeting. Town Financial Management Policy calls for a Stabilization reserve level of 5% of the Operating Budget. As the size of the Operating Budget grows, the recommended reserve rises. Based on the preliminary forecasts, the projected FY25 Stabilization Trust Fund Target would be $5.3 million and based on the June 30, 2023 Stabilization Trust Fund level of $4.6 million, the $700,000 addition to the General Stabilization Trust Fund identified in Table 2 would close the remaining gap.