# Table 4: Recurring and 1-Time Sources & Uses of Funds
## Additional Discussion


As part of ongoing revenue risk analysis, Town Treasurer Diane Hendrickson has completed a review of collections across Town Accounts. There are several pieces of good news from this analysis. First, over 90% of bills issued by the Town, including most water and sewer bills, are ultimately liened against real property, which puts the Town in a very strong position to eventually collect the money. Interest rates on debt which is owed to the Town range from 12% to 16%, depending on the statute governing the specific category of billing; and those high rates support prompt payment. Motor Vehicle Excise Tax is not lienable, but the Registry of Motor Vehicles supports collections by withholding license and registration renewal for Excise Tax delinquent payers. A measure of risk exists when people move from the State, giving up driving while owing Excise Tax. However, overall Ms. Hendrickson’s review shows that across categories collections are well over 99% current by dollar value (lagging somewhat, Server 95%, Water 97%), validating the soundness of both the Town’s collection practices and the stability of Town revenue estimates.

As a final issue, the status of the Overlay Account for Tax Appeals warrants discussion. In the past tax appeal cycle (February, 2023) Eversource Energy broke from its longstanding, costly, and deleterious practice of appealing all its property tax bills. While that change is a positive outcome, and while Eversource has withdrawn a modest portion of outstanding appeals, $5.7 million in levied tax remains under appeal, with $1.2 million of those appeals slated for adjudication before the State Appellate Tax Board (ATB) in November, 2023. A bundle of appeals were slated for trial in October, 2023, but, as their consistent practice, Eversource Energy has again pleaded with the ATB for a delay at trial, and those
appeals remain pending. While Eversource Energy’s actions continue to impose tax defense costs on all taxpayers in Hopkinton, Table 1 (row 4) shows a $0 to the tax Overlay Account for FY25. The Overlay Account has accumulated a balance of $7.2 million specifically to account for Eversource Energy appeals, an amount that now exceeds the level of appeals pending. If Eversource Energy withholds tax appeals again in February 2025, the Board of Assessors may consider releasing some one-time funding from the Overlay Account.